---
title: Weekly Introduction
module: 12
toc: true
topic: Week 12&#58 Overview
---


Active: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][0] }}

Homework Due: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][1] }}


<br />

<!-- <div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-HbwzBMDz4U" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div> -->

<!-- For Fall 2021, change out for next semester -->

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OY1eXuNyXlw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

In spite of everything that has been going on, I want to mention that from my perspective, with regards to this class, this has been a wonderful semester. I have very much enjoyed creating this new online build for the School of Visual and Media Arts fundamentals Sonic Art course. Together, we have covered a lot of ground, you have been introduced to the basic properties of sound while also contemplating the relationship of sound as an idea to people. We have discussed and experienced historical figures, artists, and musicians who have contributed to the body of work that is sonic art, as well as the ideas and techniques that constitute sonic art. You have also been introduced to tools and techniques that allow you to capture, create, manipulate, and produce sonic art based works, including; Digital Audio Workstations, basic recording/capture techniques, basic mixing techniques, critical listening skills, signal processing and plug-ins, and synthesis and MIDI. This course admittedly covers a lot of topics and knowledge.

You have worked hard while acquired new skills, knowledge, and techniques. I truly hope for many of you that this sparks an interest in continuing to work with sound and sonic art, regardless of whether you work with sound as a sonic artist, electronic musician, Avant-Garde artist, recording/mix engineer, sound designer for film, sound designer or composer for video games, live sound reinforcement, or as a sound-based researcher. I am happy to help support your ongoing work within and with sound.


<br />

This week has no official content, instead, the final project is what you should be spending your time on.
