---
title: Homework
module: 10
jotted: false
toc: false
math: false
topic: Homework
---

For your homework this week you have three assignments. The first two are more technical in nature than has been typical in this course.

# 1. Editing Voice Take Audio

Please download the following audio file.

- ["The Count Down" - https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/intro-to-sonic-arts/raw/master/resources/The-Final-Countdown.wav](https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/intro-to-sonic-arts/raw/master/resources/The-Final-Countdown.wav)

This audio file is of our esteemed teaching assistant saying numbers between 1 and 10. Your assignment is to edit this file so that the resulting audio file is a smooth, and in time, version of him saying

- "1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10"

There are miscues, mistakes, and problems. Please remove these.

You will likely also need to utilize room tone (the "silence" when he is not talking) to help smooth over your edits.

# 2. Capture Your Own Voice

For your second part of the assignment this week, I want you to select a text that you will capture yourself reading aloud.

The text you pick should result in a 25" long audio recording. (**{ NOTE: }** You must select a text, and read that text, so that it comes in exactly at 25", no longer or shorter.)

We will be grading you on how clean this recording and the resulting editing is. You will need to remove any "um's" or "ahh's".

You will also likely need to edit together multiple takes.

Although the length requirement is fixed, how you record or what you record is up to you. With respect to how you record.

- You are welcome to utilize the Shure app on your phone, similarly to how Cole demonstrated recording with his phone and Tascam on the DIY vocal recording page. You will then bring this audio into Reaper, edit it, and clean it up.
- Alternatively, you may record directly into Reaper, utilizing the microphone on your computer, you hone as a microphone for reaper, or an external microphone that you own.

You should work to reduce all background noise (this may mean utilizing a blanket).

You should also ensure that the sound of your voice is clean and present for the recording.

# Submission

Please submit these to the corresponding homework assignment submission in Moodle. 
