---
title: Homework
module: 5
jotted: false
toc: true
topic: Homework
---

Your homework consists of two parts this week.

# 1. Soundwalk Recording

For this week, you are to devise a 3-5 minute soundwalk that you will record. You should record this soundwalk with your phone, import it to Reaper, normalize, add fades, and then export to .wav or .aiff.

In devising your soundwalk, choose a route that contemplates a narrative. How does this walk take the listener on your journey, and what is that journey?

You should submit this piece to the soundwalk homework submission forum. You are welcome to provide some context for this piece, or simply leave it as a recording in a new post.

Just like last week, you should also listen to at least 3 of your fellow classmates recordings and comment on them. You are welcome to discuss the journey you found yourself on, what you liked or did not about the recording, or ask questions. You should only reply to posts that have few than 4 responses already.

- [Soundwalk Homework Submission Forum](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/hsuforum/view.php?id=1677919)

# 2.  Response to McLuhan

Please also write a short, 1-2 page reflection about the Marshall McLuhan writing and video. Please discuss your responses to Mr. McLuhan's ideas.

- Did the resonate with you?
- Did they make sense?
- Do you agree or disagree, and why?

You should submit this as a PDF document to the McLuhan response assignment.

- [McLuhan Response Submission Section](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/assign/view.php?id=1677921)
