---
title: Homework
module: 6
jotted: false
toc: true
topic: Homework Specifications
---

Your homework this week is to compose a soundwalk using individual sounds you either record yourself with your phone, or that you find online.

Just like the assignment last week, I want you to take the listener on a journey. However, unlike last week, where I asked you to devise a piece that you recorded as a single audio file, this week you are to compose a soundwalk in Reaper.



## Specifications

- Length: 00:30 - 02:00
	- This does not need to be a tremendously long work. Instead, focus on creating a journey that is interesting, while also working to better understand the technical tools and ideas introduced this week.
- Sources: At least 5 sources
	- You should use at least 5 distinct sound sources in this work. Although, I actually hope you incorporate more than that.
- Artistically: You will be judged for the journey you take the listener on.
	- You can effect this journey through consideration of the artistic ideas mentioned on the editing and mixing pages.
	- How can you use techniques such as sparse vs dense, pace, tension & release, crescendos/descrescendos, loudness relationships, sudden amplitude changes, etc. ?
	- This should be more than a simple presentation of discreet sources, the way that they overlap and balance together is crucial.
- Technically: Technically, you will be judged based on your use of editing and mixing techniques.
	- You should split audio up, rearrange it, splice it together, and fade in/out
	- You should consider relative loudness and stereo-field balance for this work of the sources
	- You are also required to utilize automation this week. You can use automation to help with the journey you take the listener on.

## Deliverables

You should submit the following items;

- A stereo, final-mix bounce of your soundwalk
- Screenshots of the arrangement and use of automation
- A written response to this week that discusses;
	- Your understanding of the content
	- How you approached your work
	- What qualities where yo attempting to create with your soundwalk work and what qualities did emerged that you were surprised by?

## Community Responses

Additionally, you should provide feedback to at least 4 of your classmates soundwalk compositions.

If a post already has more then 5 responses, then you cannot respond to that submission. This may mean that you have to come back later to listen and respond to classmate works.

## Submission

Please create a new post in the homework submission forum. You should upload the bounced audio file and screenshots. Please place your written response as text in the post.

- [Week 6 HW Submission Forum]()
