---
title: Homework
module: 8
jotted: false
toc: false
math: false
topic: Homework
---

For your homework this week, you are welcome to take one of two approaches.

# 1. Compose Your Own Work

Your first option that you can choose is to compose your own sonic artwork or music piece using MIDI exclusively.

If you choose this path, you should plan on:

1. recording at least three tracks
2. utilizing at least two different synth instruments

# 2. Arrange a Pop Song from a MIDI File

Alternatively, you are welcome to search for, download, and arrange a pop music tune from an available MIDI file. This would be similar to [what I did at the end of the long demo video on MIDI]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-8/midi-in-reaper/).

If you choose this path, you should have:

1. at least 6 tracks
2. at least 3 different synths

If you take this route, then you are working to make it sound "good". I.E. everything should be audible, and make sense together. We should be able to hear the main melody lines, and harmony/backing tracks should work to support the piece.

This does not mean you need to play it straight. You are welcome to make these as crazy or odd as you want. But try to make it legible as to what we are hearing.

# Deliverables

To submit your homework, please:

1. bounce out your finished work to a 2-track file
2. take a few screen shots demonstrating your session setup
3. write a response to your work this week, discussing:
   - which assignment you picked
   - what you enjoyed about working with MIDI
   - what ideas that sparked for the future
   - and what problems you had

Finally, in addition, you should plan in responding to at least 2 of your fellow classmates posts on the Moodle Submission Forum.
