---
title: Sonic Art
module: 3
jotted: false
toc: true
topic: Sonic Art
---

Up until this point in the course, we have not really taken the time to address the idea of or term _Sonic Art_.

At once, this term is self explanatory and illusive. Clearly, it refers to some sort of "art" which deals with the realm of _sound_, _audio_, and/or the _sonic_. We will not discuss nor define the term _art_ (I will save that for your art criticism, theory, and history courses). This is a conceptual hole best reserved for these other spaces. We will assume that you have embedded knowledge and understanding of what _art_ is. However, this idea of _sonic art_, which is sometimes also referred to as _sound art_,  (we will consider the terms interchangeable for this course) is less understood.

When trying to trace the "birth" of sonic art, scholars typically pinpoint it to somewhere in the first half of the 20th century. However, the use of the term (_sound art_ or _sonic art_) would wait a few more decades and does not start until the 1970's, when it was used colloquially, at first, by artists of the Avant-Garde scene (Dunaway, 2020). At the time, this term was additionally interchangeable with the terms _audio art_, _sound poetry_, _sound sculpture_, and _experimental music_. It was printed for the first time in 1974, in one of the last publications by Something Else Press, in their _Something Else Yearbook 1974_.

## Our Definition of _Sonic Art_

**We will consider the term Sonic Art to refer to practices, activities, research, creative work, events, or performances that deal with sound, audio, sonics, listening, or hearing as one of their primary topics or mediums.**

Obviously, this is a vast definition, encompassing many (many, many, many...) possibilities. Furthermore, this definition allows for work who's medium of presentation may be visual to be considered as _sonic art_ if the topic it is exploring is based the _sonic_. For me, this breadth and lack of specificity in the terms definition is perfectly fine. Just as the term _Visual Art_ is wide ranging and encompassing, so too, is the term _Sonic Art_.

The strength in such a nondescript definition is that it allows artists to narrow the term to their work, or in defining their work, as they see fit. It also does not force someone to shoehorn or fit their work into a definition or category. Instead, this term can serve as a welcoming place for many activities, practices, and approaches, encompassing them all under a large tent.

## Why do we need this term?

One critique and question of such a broad definition may be _"why do we need this term when there are other more specific categories, terms, styles, genres, creative practices, or research practices that could better describe this work?"_. The answer of course, as with all social constructs, discrete categories, and classification systems is that the existing "boxes" may not be flexible enough to account for new ideas and evolving understanding.

As I see it, there are two specific forces that conspired together during the 20th century to force the creation and adoption of the term or idea "sonic art". These are the larger fields of _music_ and _art_.

### The Boundaries of _Art_ & _Music_

The taste makers, artists, composers, and elites of the 20th century who were in positions of power found themselves driven towards categorization and definitions of _what IS_ and _what is NOT_ art and music based on evolving notions of [aesthetics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aesthetics), technical skill, and elitism. Rather than allow for anyone to explore, experiment, or create in the means that they were driven towards, the people in power dictated the definitions of what was _good_ and what could be considered of _value_. This was mirrored in common culture through notions of conservatism that raised notions of beauty and accessibility of art as being most important. This left those creators and artists who's work did not fit into these notions without definitions to ground their work. At the same time, there many artists who rebelled against the notion of the gallery and museum as the only arbiters of taste and value. Artists such as [Marcel Duchamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcel_Duchamp) purposefully worked against the ideas of "high art" and "value" pushed by these institutions by creating "artworks" of found objects, or numerous duplications of his own artworks at such large numbers as to reduce their financial value to possible investors. 






The elephant in the room (if you will), is _music_.




<div class="ref">
<h4>References and Resources</h4>

The above content was adapted from:

<ol>
<li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1525/res.2020.1.1.25">Judy Dunaway; The Forgotten 1979 MoMA Sound Art Exhibition. _Resonance_ 7 May 2020; 1 (1): 25–46. doi: https://doi.org/10.1525/res.2020.1.1.25</a></li>
</ol>
</div>
