---
title: Wrap Up Discussion of Sonic Art
module: 3
jotted: false
toc: false
topic: Wrapping Up our Current Discussion of Sonic Art
---

I want to address the discrepancy between these two interchangeable terms; _sonic art_ and _sound art_. The reason I feel this necessary is in recognition of the fact that we will refer to this as _sonic art_ at the University of Montana and as the _sonic art_ concentration.

We consider the term _sound art_ to be a specific practice that generally includes art who's primary medium is sound or art that is conceptually about sound (irregardless of medium). This includes the fuzzy line between experimental music and sound art, but excludes those activities that would be considered music following a western culture definition which considers harmony based from the 12-note system and standard approaches to rhythm to be necessary qualities.

Whereas, we consider _sonic art_ to encompass a much broader area of possible activities dealing with the sonic. This will include the obvious and overlaps with our above definition of _sound art_;

- art where the primary medium is sound or audio
- art that is conceptually about sound
- experimental music

In addition, we consider _sonic art_ to also include;

- a relationship to the possible use of microprocessors and computers
- computer music
- electroacoustic music
- interactive art
- interactive systems
- soundscape
- soundwalks
- installation
- sonic meditation
- creative improvisation
- immersive sound
- visual music
- computer assisted composition
- education and learning in the standard areas of production, including;
    - studio recording
    - live recording
    - mixing
    - mastering
- live sound and sound reinforcement
- sound for film
    - sound design
    - on-location recording
    - foley
    - post-production
    - film scoring
- sound for games
- sound for theater
- machine listening
- digital signal processing
- music information retrieval
- music cognition
- sonification of data
- auditory displays
- new instruments for musical expression
- generative music


Generally, we consider _sonic art_ a more encompassing term that accounts for the various activities, directions, and interests of both our students and faculty. We find it important to allow for those associated with the _Sonic Arts_ program at the University of Montana to have the opportunity to explore directions and take ownership of their education that can incorporate the above areas, topics, or expressions. Likewise, we will not force you to label yourself as a sound artist, sonic artist, musician, artist, researcher, sound designer, etc. You are of course welcome to do so, but we want you to have the space to explore the sonic as it best supports and benefits your larger creative and artistic goals.
